now I'm going to explain a subsystem
design process this topic deals with the
design of a digital system using
top-down approach here as you know that
whenever you want to design a computer
first you have to design different sub
blocks such as the input output units
memory you need arithmetic unit logic
unit controlling it like that
here you are going to apply top-down
approach to design a subsystem here by
designing a subsystem if you have to
consider following points that is no
unity cost higher reliability associate
subsystem the actor subsystem should
dissipate low-power lower weight and
lower value your expectation is
subsystem for for better performance
enhanced repeatability possibility of
reduce design in development build I
hope getting my point
subsystem designing and designing a
subsystem you have to consider these all
considerations that is no unity cost and
higher reliability low power dissipation
lower weight and lower value better for
false enhanced repeatability and
possibility of a reduced design and
development period greater should be
reduced right now here some problem
while designing a subsystem first one is
designing a complex system in this is
very important in reasonable time with
the reasonable effort that is one
problem that is how to design a complex
system it a reasonable time with a
reasonable effort usable time with a
reasonable effort a second problem is
selection of nature of architecture
which one is best suited suitable to
take the full advantage of VLSI and the
technology okay so second problem is
architecture choosing architecture
nature of architecture third one is
testability of large complex systems
once implemented on silicon ok testing
is a very difficult task in case of a
complex system ok this is third problem
that is testability of large complex
system once implemented on a silicon
okay so for this problem below mentioned
some solution with respect to problem
193 that is you have to follow top-down
design approach with the CAD tools such
as a universe you are using currents
that is also cattles second one to
overcome that problem partitioning the
system sensibly dividing a system into
subsystem sensibly you can overcome that
problem
third one is aiming for simple
interconnection interconnection should
be very simple in design hi
hilarity within the subsystem hi
regularity did subsystem that is also
very important regularities very
important as you know you learned in
even earlier semester implementation of
a half adder or full adder by using NAND
gate Woodley okay so NAND gate by using
NAND gate so that one indicates that
implementation of adder by using NAND
gate only that is a regularity okay you
have to prefer higher regularity within
the subsystem to overcome the problems
mentioned above then generate and verify
each section of the design once you
design a subsystem next what you to do
verify each section of a design if it is
working fine then go with the
integration okay next one divert the
design portion of a total chip area to
test and dialectic sorry diagnostic
facility so there should be a testing
facility should be included you might be
heard
dist that is built in self-test in some
chip included as a separate block
instead of doing a manual testing manual
testing is fine with the simple circuits
you are going to check are you able to
verify by applying a different bit
patterns observing the output in case of
where if I take an example full adder
okay here you are going to apply three
inputs observing some and carry okay so
full adder consistory input you a
possibility of a test pattern should be
eight combination but if it is large
number of
put some more number of inputs in that
case if you have to go with the beast
and few more techniques ok so last point
select the architecture that allows the
design objective and high regulating the
higher regulative realization ok you
have to select a proper architecture
that allows the design a lower design
objective mind higher regulating higher
regularity realization ok he was
explaining you regularity ok this is
very important regularity high regular
teen realization ok and selecting
architecture is also very important okay
now we'll explain you institution of a
design process the design process that
is first one is concept of hierarchy as
I was explaining you top down approach
here structure design begins with the
concept of hierarchy if system is more
complex but you have to do divide any
complex function into less sub sorry
less complex of functions when you
observe the system you may feel complex
circuit when you divide that one as a
input or put in memory you need then
earth meticulous you can it ok so you
may feel less complex ok so that's why
what you have to do divide any complex
function into a less complex sub
functions that is up to lips and
whatever whatever I told full adder ok
so here the process
Third Point is process this process
whatever I was explaining you okay this
process you were to say is a top-down
design approach top-down design approach
here system complexity can be decreased
okay by dividing into sub blocks or some
block functions as the system complexity
increases its are occurrences changes as
the different factors become irrelevant
to its creation system as accounts as
system complexity increases your
circulation changes as different factors
become relevant to its creation okay
next one important thing is coupling
okay this coupling can be used to
measure how much sub model interacts how
much submarine interacts once you design
subsystems okay next step is coupling
okay which one measures how much
sub-model interacts okay well once you
design a thematic we need and logic we
need control unit you need to couple
okay you need to couple with the memory
okay so this one measures how much
sub-model interacts right I'd one more
important thing is component interacting
with the high frequency we physically
proximate one may pay severe penalty for
long and high bandwidth integral long
and high bandwidth interconnects next
point
concurrency it should be exploited it is
desirable that all the gates on the chip
do useful work most of the time most of
the time useful work done by these gates
on a chip that is concurrency should be
exploited one more important point that
is adoption to new process within a
short time okay
why because technology is changing very
fast so adoption of a new process must
occur within a short time in Roldan days
micrometer technology nowadays nanometer
technology in your laboratory can use
180 nanometer technology 90 nanometer
technology as well as a fortify
nanometer technology okay so here our
duction - new process must rocker in a
short time that is very important now
here representing a design by several
approaches are possible as you studied
in module 2 and module 1 conventional
circuit symbols in case of MOSFET logic
symbols stick diagram both mixture of
logic symbol and stick diagram that is
convenient at a stage we are going to
use
mixture of a simple sign strict diagrams
eye mask layouts while learning
fabrication process you might be going
through a past layouts architectural
block diagram and floor plan this is
very important okay so here designing
approaches as listed here conventional
circuit symbols logic symbol strict
diagram mature of logic symbol centric
diagram then masks layouts architectural
block diagram in flow planning fine now
general arrangement of a 4-bit processor
is this one a digital processor
structure you are going to say this one
is a data path also it is a element
register this one consisted buses it is
control bus address bus data bus some
buses are unidirectional some verses on
by direction also so here different sub
blocks connected to these verses
different blocks are a memory which one
is used to store the data temporarily
are permanently and second block that is
ALU and registers which one performs
earth metal Issac function
functions such as the addition and
subtraction similar logic function X are
known and okay resistors also used in
this block to store the data temporarily
it will be permanently here control unit
over all activities controlled by this
control unit it may be memory read
memory right I will read I write
accessing of a information can be done
by using this block right similarly last
block that is input output block
inputting the data sending the data to
extreme world if you take example with
respect to a computer keyboard is input
device Moses input device okay you are
going to you can put the data through a
keyboard through a mouse similarly
output device that is sending a data to
external world whenever you are
observing the screen that is monitor
itself is a external device right so
this is what general management of work
it our committee process sir so you know
already processor for bit equity
processor which one performs a with
respect to work with operation it may be
addition subtraction multiplication
division or logical operation with
respect what 4-bit that's why this one
is denoted answer for quit arithmetic
processor okay here a second block that
is a data path okay so a data path for
this date
but input is data in and output is data
out in terminal operation carried with
respect to a control signal Missy Cerf
Mehta kind logical and shipped operation
and temporary storage of operands also
then within this block we did this block
and data path maybe using a bus it may
be a Y Direction also same bus can be
used to input the data symbols can be
used to send the data shown here right
so here vertical line indicates a
control signal horizontal line indicates
the data okay
vertical line indicates the control
signal horizontal line indicator data
passing into passing note up this data
path now this is a subunits